### Introduction
This readme, the R code, and code book contained in this repository is to 
satisfy the requirements of the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data course
project requirements. The following sections describe how to get the data and 
the processing and analysis parts performed by the R code.

The result is a tidy data set with variable means (over all observations) 
for each subject and correpsonding activity.

### GettingCleaningData_project Repository
Repository contains R code (run_analysis.R), code book (CodeBook.pdf), and
readme (README.md) for the Getting and Cleaning Data course project.

### Getting the Data
First you must download the Samsung data, decompress (unzip) the data, and
change your working directory to the parent directory containing the unzipped
data files. Please see the README.txt file within the UCI HAR Dataset directory
for details on the contents of the Samsung data and file structure.

The following commands can be used to download, unzip, and set the working
directory:

1.  download.file("https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles
%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip", destfile = "./dataset.zip")
2.  unzip("./dataset.zip")
3.  setwd("./UCI HAR Dataset")

### Reading in the Data with R
Next the data is read into R using read.table(). This is performed for the
following.
1.  features.txt->contains the labels for the data set variables.
2.  train/subject_train.txt->contains the subject IDs for the training set data.
3.  train/y_train.txt->contains the activity IDs for the training set data.
4.  train/X_train.txt->contains the training set data for all the variables.
5.  test/subject_test.txt->contains the subject IDs for the test set data.
6.  test/y_test.txt->contains the activity IDs for the test set data.
7.  test/X_test.txt->contains the test set data for all the variables.

### Part 1: Combining Data into One Data Frame
1.  Data frames were created for the training and test data sets. These were
generated by column binding the subject IDs, activities, and variable data.
2.  The training and test data frames were then combined into one large data frame
by row binding.
3.  Column names were added using the variable names available from the features.txt
file.

### Part 2: Filtering on Columns which Contain 'mean' or 'std'
Use grepl() to remove columns which do not contain mean or std

### Part 3: Replacing Activity IDs with Activity Descriptions 
Use sub() to replace activity IDs with activity descriptions from
activity_labels.txt.

### Part 4: Labelling the Data Set with Descriptive Names
Use sub() and gsub() to rename column names with tidy-like easy to read labels.
This includes using camelBack naming, removing paretheses and dashes, and
adding more descriptive labels to allow for easier reading of the variable names.

### Part 5: Creating a Second Tidy Data Set from the Output from Part 4.
Use reshape2 library for functions melt and dcast to include the mean of the
variables for the observations for each subject and activity performed by that 
subject.

Print out tidy data set using write.table() using row.name=FALSE.
